---
tags: ADS
robots: noindex, nofollow
---

# Class meeting 2020-03-12

# Reference Docs:
* Twitter project docs
* Project overview

# Goals: 
* Identify new data management tasks necessary for project development
* Assign tasks to different team members. 
* Set a timeline for deliverables 

# Outline

## Housekeeping

* HW 05 was to be due on Friday. Officially move the due date back to Wed 3/25 
    - Knit to PDF, submit in Google Drive
* Update on Poster presentation --> Virtual conference presentation. Time TBD. 
* Status of R twitter tutorials? 
        - I tried some of them, and they all needed an API key. 
        - They should be posted on your website so I can share that link with the POLS students. You can’t view an HTML file in Google Drive without downloading. 
* Recap the outcomes of the POLS class last night. 
    - Examine the documents for the groups that I was able to talk to. 

## Project development
* Identify new DM tasks for project development 
* Assign tasks to different team members. 
* Set a timeline for deliverables 



# Deliverables (Due 3/27)

## Robin
* Get the twitter data & dm file into a github repo that is shared with the class. 
* I control the master branch, and handle all PR’s 
* :heavy_check_mark: Posted at https://github.com/DATA485-S20/campfire_tweets. All students should have fork access. 


## Students

* Fork the twitter collab data repo
* Put your name on the project document that you’re assigned to.  :heavy_check_mark:
* Schedule a meeting time with your group the week after spring break to talk over the research question. The sooner you can do this the better. 
        - When you meet with them, write up a summary in your own words about what the research question is about. You will turn this in. 


Data management tasks necessary for project development (point person)

* (Tanya) Applying sentiment scores to each tweet.
* (Brandon) Create indicator or categorical variable for presence of keywords in text. 
* (Olivia) Get data for a larger time frame for an individual (or a few) accounts such as @PG&E
* (Irf) Look into more detail about how to get any sort of location (even regional) data out of tweets. 
* (Madeline) Can we identify user accounts that are ‘official’ news organizations? 
* (Kris) What does “Verified” actually indicate? 
* (Kaleb) What information is contained in the “media variables”? 


Due dates - Friday 3/27



