lec/lec02-what-is-ds.md, before:

# What is Data Science? 
This is an example of collaborative notes. After discussing each topic we will rotate through writing down answers to questions marked with a :question:

Questions marked with a :busts_in_silhouette: answered by all students (put your name in [brackets]). 

You can find some answers to the following questions in DDS Ch 1 
:book:, but you will have to also search the general internet :globe_with_meridians: for others. 

---

:question: What is a Hype cycle? Find an example image (or two) and link it here. :globe_with_meridians: 


:question: When did Data Science become a "Thing(tm)"?


:question: When was Data Science at the top of the Hype cycle? 

:question: What is the connection between a Data Scientist and a unicorn? 

:busts_in_silhouette: Give an example of _datafication_ that affects you personaly. 


:busts_in_silhouette: What's your DS profile?


:busts_in_silhouette: Find an answer to the question "What is a Data Scientist" for each year prior to now. Let's see how far back we can go in a reasonable amount of time. Include the URL of your finding. 

* 2020
* 2019
* 2018


:busts_in_silhouette: Find a job posting for a Data Scientist. Provide the name of the company, location, position title, salary (if shown), very brief description, required skills/knowledges/degree. Example: 

**Who/Where**: Quicken Loans, Detroit, MI.  
**Title**: Data Scientist.  
**Salary** $100k or $20/hour _(those don't add up)_  
**Duties**: Tech lead on modeling project. Work with large complex dat sets. Build prototypes. Data Viz  
**Reqs**: Deep understanding of domaim. Summarize data. Deploy models. One of (?) R, Python, C++, SQL, Version control  
**Edu**: "Advanced Degree preferred"

Copy the below code chunk and write your own answers. Two spaces at the end of a line creates a line break. 
```
**Who/Where**: 
**Title**: 
**Salary**: 
**Duties**: 
**Reqs**: 
**Edu**: 
```


----

# What's going on now in the DS World? 

Find 1) someone on Twitter :twitter: that is in the DS realm that seems interesting to you. Post their twitter handle below. 2) A DS blog (from a different person) to follow. 

:pencil: Share a blog post from your choice in Slack `#state-of-ds` channel.   
:pencil: Read the linked article,  and comment on someone elses post

### People

* [@JennyBryan](https://twitter.com/jennybryan) Sofware engineer at RStudio. Developer of [STAT 545](https://stat545.com/) (a killer grad DS course at UBC) 


### Blogs

* [R Bloggers](https://www.r-bloggers.com): R news and tutorials contributed by hundreds of R bloggers
*

Commit message:

add tags and link to live vrs

lec/lec02-what-is-ds.md, after:

---
tags: ADS
robots: noindex, nofollow
---

Click [[here]](https://hackmd.io/@norcalbiostat/data485-lec02) for the live version of these notes on HackMD.

# What is Data Science? 
This is an example of collaborative notes. After discussing each topic we will rotate through writing down answers to questions marked with a :question:

Questions marked with a :busts_in_silhouette: answered by all students (put your name in [brackets]). 

You can find some answers to the following questions in DDS Ch 1 
:book:, but you will have to also search the general internet :globe_with_meridians: for others. 


---

:question: What is a Hype cycle? Find an example image (or two) and link it here. :globe_with_meridians: 


:question: When did Data Science become a "Thing(tm)"?


:question: When was Data Science at the top of the Hype cycle? 

:question: What is the connection between a Data Scientist and a unicorn? 

:busts_in_silhouette: Give an example of _datafication_ that affects you personaly. 


:busts_in_silhouette: What's your DS profile?


:busts_in_silhouette: Find an answer to the question "What is a Data Scientist" for each year prior to now. Let's see how far back we can go in a reasonable amount of time. Include the URL of your finding. 

* 2020
* 2019
* 2018


:busts_in_silhouette: Find a job posting for a Data Scientist. Provide the name of the company, location, position title, salary (if shown), very brief description, required skills/knowledges/degree. Example: 

**Who/Where**: Quicken Loans, Detroit, MI.  
**Title**: Data Scientist.  
**Salary** $100k or $20/hour _(those don't add up)_  
**Duties**: Tech lead on modeling project. Work with large complex dat sets. Build prototypes. Data Viz  
**Reqs**: Deep understanding of domaim. Summarize data. Deploy models. One of (?) R, Python, C++, SQL, Version control  
**Edu**: "Advanced Degree preferred"

Copy the below code chunk and write your own answers. Two spaces at the end of a line creates a line break. 
```
**Who/Where**: 
**Title**: 
**Salary**: 
**Duties**: 
**Reqs**: 
**Edu**: 
```


----

# What's going on now in the DS World? 

Find 1) someone on Twitter :twitter: that is in the DS realm that seems interesting to you. Post their twitter handle below. 2) A DS blog (from a different person) to follow. 

:pencil: Share a blog post from your choice in Slack `#state-of-ds` channel.   
:pencil: Read the linked article,  and comment on someone elses post

### People

* [@JennyBryan](https://twitter.com/jennybryan) Sofware engineer at RStudio. Developer of [STAT 545](https://stat545.com/) (a killer grad DS course at UBC) 


### Blogs

* [R Bloggers](https://www.r-bloggers.com): R news and tutorials contributed by hundreds of R bloggers
*
